okay we're ready to go thanks so much
for making time to see me uh i'm a big
admirer
oh thank you so uh thanks for the kind
words anthony um so i understand that
your story is uh a little bit different
from some people in our community
is it okay if i call you anthony
yeah that would be preferable thank you
okay so can you tell us a little bit
about yourself and um how you got to
where you are
sure so should i lead with the headline
uh you know having murdered somebody and
got the prison or should i give a little
bit of backstory to explain who i am
before i before i completely shatter
that
um what
your choice i i think you've led with
the headline at this point i don't know
i've already shared an app well i mean
it's on the title of the stream so it's
not a surprise i think
so i'm 41 years old now
um american
obviously um
grew up very poor
um
in a really abusive home
no father
uh
mom was a drug addict pretty bad when i
was young
she sold me and my brother one time to
the drug dealers
well
pawned us i guess would be a better way
to say it
uh and then my grandma ended up having
to come and pay her debt to get us to
bond us out of the drug dealers i only
heard that story later excuse me
thankfully i have no memory of that so
that that's just to give you a little
bit of context i never knew that version
of my mom thankfully
um
when i was two or three years old i got
ran over
uh my mom ran me over with a with a
chevy blazer which is a one ton truck i
think
um on accident
um
i remember remembering parts of it but i
have no memory of it um
i know she was in a rage with her
boyfriend
and uh was going to leave
in in the truck
and i evidently tried to stop her and
she didn't notice and she ran me over
so then i spent the next hmm
this is pretty emotional just bear with
me this is a hard [ __ ] to talk about
i've never talked to anybody about this
actually
um
i spent the next several years in
hospitals and wheelchairs and
crutches
trying to walk
and uh
never playing never getting to play or
anything because
you know
black cast on both legs
so it was tough
and uh
thankfully i can walk that's something
you know
and uh to this day
actually finally as i get older the pain
gets worse
just every day it gets worse in my legs
um the gift that keeps on giving you
know
so anyways
that was my childhood
and uh
so then i finally got it i finally got
through that
and uh
started going to school and everything
never made any friends everybody hated
me
uh never could figure out why
like
we moved a lot a lot
and i was the common denominator in
every scenario where i had no friends
uh
i was always bullied and picked on
and i'm big i was big as a kid i was the
biggest in my class so you would think
well how do you get bullied
it
i wonder it's because i was a [ __ ] and
i don't think it is i don't think that's
what it was i think i just wanted to be
liked
and
i'm very cerebral
i'm not usually this emotional i'm very
cerebral and so
when people would come and attack me it
was like
i wasn't getting mad i was just like why
like i don't get it yeah i mean i wanted
to know why i wanted to talk about it
and understand the situation and i never
could
and so probably an easy prey type of
thing you know
and plus i was big so it looks good
you're you're bullying the big guy you
know and so that
that that i never had any friends really
or i would always have like maybe one
outcast fellow outcast it was a friend
um
and that never lasted long i don't know
why i drive all my friends away and
again i know i'm the common denominator
in all of these things so i would like
to know
what that is and i know you wouldn't
have that insight in a two-hour
interview but
um
that's something i've been trying to
figure out like go ahead please i was
going to say i may not have that insight
but you may have that insight
i may and that's what i'm hoping you're
very good at leading questions you're
very very good at that that's your
strength and i've never seen a therapist
before or anything like that but if
they're all like you and that's the
method they use i mean that's phenomenal
you know you help the person find the
answer within and i think that's
critical you don't preach to them from
without and i think that that's really
important so first of all anthony thank
you so much for sharing i mean it sounds
like
um
that's a lot bro
yeah i was kind of a dump right there um
no i mean i i wasn't so much thinking
about the dump just as you know it's one
thing to dump that but to have all of
that to dump
you know that that's sort of more of
what i mean it's like wow like can you
catch a break in any dimension
i feel i feel that much of the time to
be honest with you um
i'm constantly
and i see a lot of your your people talk
about this that it resonates with me i'm
always waiting for the other shoe to
drop
when something good's happening all
right now what now what's the you know
where's the lightning it's got to be
coming it's got to be coming if you know
if my past history is any is anything to
go by you know the bad the bad is coming
right away
okay
um
anyway i i sort of jumped in for a
second but i think you were sharing a
little bit about so it seems like you
were getting bullied a lot had trouble
making friends you kind of called
yourself the common denominator because
you're moving around and this keeps
happening
right new set of people new set of kids
same patterns
yes exactly and so those are my school
years um
just to give a little insight into
myself um
i coasted through school with a's and
b's and when i say coasted i mean
basically did no work
uh i would show up
listen to the lectures take the take the
test and that's it like i i absorb
things quite easily except mathematics i
struggle with that greatly but otherwise
i
it in and i've got it right one time and
so that's that's a blessing i have that
going for me and i'm really appreciative
of that
um so i really never had to put in
effort at school and that's a trend that
continues to this day i'm a full-time
student in college and while i would
really like to be applying myself
i don't
i i wait till the very last minute
i breeze through it and then i get
straight a's so there's like no
incentive
to break that pattern and that's kind of
a drag because
at some point that's gonna blow up in my
face i'm just waiting on that to happen
and i
i would like to find the there's the
other shoe
yeah exactly
exactly good call exactly yeah um so
those are my school years we were pretty
poor like i said
made me start working a full-time job
when i was
i think 12 i had to lie about my age to
get a job so i had to work full-time and
go to school
and i had to pay rent and to my mom and
buy my own clothes and all that kind of
stuff
um
she had sent my brother away she gave my
brother to state when a couple years
prior to that so i was the only
remaining kid
um
to kick me out of the house
well
she had me put in jail she looked she
lied about me and had me put in jail
when i was
14 i believe
yeah i was 15.
um
she was very volatile person and by that
time i was big enough she couldn't beat
me anymore
uh
just to give you an instance so it
wasn't it wasn't just beatings my mom
was very physically abusive um i was 10
11.
you first start to get your adult teeth
and i didn't wear a shirt she picked out
from me one day
and she took my head
and she slammed it into the side of the
bathtub repeatedly and she broke that
tooth which is still broken to this day
and she knocked out that tooth
and she broke that tooth
and then mom told me
you better not tell anybody you better
tell them you fell off the monkey bars
or something
because if you don't i'm going to kill
you
and nobody's going to care i'm allowed
to i'm your mom
i'm 10 i'm however old i was and so
absolutely i believe that that's gospel
truth i said and even if they do and
even and she didn't say it in this tone
i'm trying to try to make light of it
because it's very painful for me and
that's how i defuse tension
um
she said
and even if they did care
all they would do is put you in a foster
home and you'd get molested so you know
take your choice
and so of course i never said anything
to her she didn't have to say that by
the way that was my mom i loved her to
death i wasn't going to tell on her i
mean i didn't think i was being abused
it was only later i came to that
realization
i thought
she was being a mom
so
very volatile but eventually i got big
enough to where she couldn't manhandle
me like that
and uh
i remember
so keep in mind at this time
i'm going to school to high school
full-time
of course since high school
um and i'm working full-time
and so i'm getting like five hours of
sleep a night
um
i don't mind it you know that's life you
got to learn how to work eventually yeah
i mean so it is what it is um what i did
mind
is that every day she would come home
from work and it's this co-worker was
such a piece [ __ ] this co-worker had
done that she got in a fight with this
co-worker for that reason uh you know
she's dead now you know bless her soul
she dead but
she was never happy unless she was in
conflict i don't know if you've ever
known anybody like that but that's
unless there was some kind of conflict
she wasn't happy
and so uh
i [ __ ] up this day she came home and
she you know this co-worker blah blah
blah and
you know i'm working too i'm going to
school i'm i'm having hell at school no
you know it's bullying only gets worse
as you get older believe it or not in
school um more violent
and now i wasn't the biggest so you know
and uh
i never said [ __ ] i just went about my
life i didn't cry about it i complained
to her about it i just did my business
but every day i got to listen to her
negativity
and uh
so she tells me she tells me all this
and i [ __ ] up
i said wow you just sound like you have
a hard time getting along with anybody
at work
oh man she freaked out
she pulled a knife out on me she she
just she just went [ __ ] ape [ __ ] so
nothing really came of that
except that she went to her room i went
to bed we went to our corners we went
back to our corners
and the next morning i woke up and i was
being arrested by the police
and she told him i pulled a knife on her
and threatened her life and
this and that and the other thing
actually that was it that was what she
told him was that i pulled a knife on
her and threatened her life and she's my
mom so they took my they took her word
for it no questions asked
and an interesting fact when you're a
juvenile the only person who can get you
out of juvenile hole is your legal
guardian which in my case was my mom who
had put me in there so she had me
hostage
in there and i had to agree to whatever
she wanted me to agree to to get out
and uh
i dreamed of going to college that was
my escape that was my lifelong dream was
that uh
that i was gonna go to college but no
money none
no money so
scholarship was what i was hoping for
but now i had a criminal record
and so
i went that dream
i thought i didn't know i thought
and so i dropped out of school after
that
cause what's the point
there's no end game anymore you know
uh
and my mom kicked me out of the house
i guess i dropped out because she kicked
me out of the house
uh
and so i went to live with my uncle
and he he was that he actually turned
out to be a violent drunk
and so then i went to live home i went
to go live on the streets
and i i wandered around the country i
hitchhiked across the country for a
while
best time of my life
in a way
that freedom
you know what i mean
tuckers are amazing people
go ahead i was just saying when you said
you know what i mean i was about to say
no no i don't can you help me understand
maybe yeah yeah
it's well number one i'm not living
under constant fear anymore of my mom my
uncle whoever you know
but believe it or not living on a
highway is it was less
emotionally traumatizing
so
um
unless you i i never had a bad
experience and i'm a big guy and i was a
big guy at that point i'm over six feet
tall and i'm big you know i'm a big guy
so
it would not be the same i think for a
woman hitchhiking across the country but
for a man i i've never had a negative
experience
you know truck drivers would give me a
ride
they would shoot the ship with me they
would give me a little cash to help me
on my way and i just met really good
people i just met a lot of really good
people across the country
and uh
so
to cut to the chase
i ended up at one point oh so my brother
was 18 by this point he had been
released by the state
he'd been let she had given him away to
the state he was now living on his own
so i went to go stay with him
my brother always hated me i think
i think he always hated me
he was he
i i can't even give you i don't even
want to go into that too deeply because
it it doesn't really matter he hated me
but i looked up to him he was the only
male in the house even though he was
only a couple of older years older than
i
he was like a father figure i suppose in
my mind
but he always hated me and rejected me
and and uh never want to be around i was
the annoying little brother you know i
was a tag along little brother who had
zero social skills of
and make friends
uh
as you know when other people are
learning those social i've i've only
read this in recent months when i've
been wondering what the [ __ ] up with
me
um
i didn't get that socialization at the
crucial years
you know and so uh you know there's no
making up for lost time i think with
that so that's something i've gone
through my whole life
complete lack of social skills
um
and uh
so i went to stay with my brother
temporarily
he said i could i could stay with him
for a couple of months
and uh so i wouldn't stay with him
and i thought well that'd be cool
and it was it was in a way but
he lived in a place
he lived excuse me
he lived in a place you can't even call
where he lived in town it was it was
nothing it was in nowheresville there
was no jobs there was no businesses
there was no nothing there was there was
it was nothing
um he just happened to live there and so
there was nothing for me to do he was at
work all day there was nowhere for me to
get a job there was nothing for me to do
so i was just there bored and then he
would go hang out with his friends and i
he didn't want me coming along
and so
i guess i felt rejected by that all
right i definitely felt rejected by that
but i only realized that now i didn't
realize that at the time
um
funny how hindsight is so useful but
foresight would be even better
um
so
he had a good friend so
they were like
they were in a gang
right
but the thing is this town like they had
two rival gangs but
there's no town there's nothing to fight
over so i don't understand right to this
day i still don't so they were in this
game
and um
one night
they uh
my brother was out with his friends
and then the friends came back and my
brother wasn't there
and so i asked my brother's friend i
said well where's my brother
and he said um
oh well we got jumped by by these rival
gang members and they pulled a gun
and so i ran away and your brother's
still there
and so i said what the what what so
we went and got a guy i went got my gun
and we were gonna go get my brother and
try to rescue him and then he just
happened to pull up at that time well
that that that is why i tell people i
killed that guy okay that scenario the
fact that he let my brother
have a gun pulled on him and abandoned
them
and that's true that is that is
partially true
that is publicly true and that that is
true within me as well but that's not
the whole story i don't think
i think a lot of it was jealousy the
relationship he had with my brother that
i didn't right
the fact that my brother liked him more
than me and clearly obviously no no
bones about it right
and um
so i think it was that sort of jealousy
that caused me to do that and i've only
come to that realization later
that
perhaps if it were not for that
that's if it were not for that
jealousy i would not have let that be a
reason to shoot him
so i just want to make a couple things
clear anthony so first of all um
you know are i want to make sure
i don't know how we're going to make
sure of this but um i understand that
you spent some time in prison but like
is there anything that you could be
saying right now that could get you in
trouble
no i've been convicted of it i was
guilty i've already done my prison
sentence okay so i i just want to make
because i'm not a lawyer it doesn't
sound like you're a lawyer
um i i you know the last thing that i
would want is anything negative to
happen to you by no no this is okay this
was a case that long long since been
adjudicated i've i've fulfilled my
sentence for it uh it's it's so so it
sounds like the dude that abandoned your
brother you ended up killing
yes i shot him
like at that time or like later
later on later on so that that that
whole night
so when my brother showed up
the guy was like oh you're one of us now
you proved your loyalty you're you're
part of the gang now by getting jumped i
guess i don't know my brother was all
beat up
so they shaved his head
uh i guess this was a sereno ritual or
whatever i don't i don't know anything
about it i i'm speaking it out of
ignorance so i just don't know
um
and so there was a big party that night
and um
everybody left slowly but surely
everybody trickled out
and santiago is my victim's name
i want to call him by name because he
deserves that respect what i did was
[ __ ] up
and santiago was the last was still
there in fact they stayed overnight
now santiago was 24
and his girlfriend was 14
and uh yeah that was kind of creepy you
know but they were there that night
and he was sleeping on the couch and she
was sleeping on the floor and my brother
was in bed
and they went to sleep
and so then i went to my room and i went
to sleep well the next morning my
brother went to work this was six a.m
roughly um and so i was up
and they were still asleep
and so
i woke the guy up
and i said hey
so what's up
so you know you're a real [ __ ] right he
said what's that
i said you're a real [ __ ]
he said why is that i said you almost
got my brother killed
and he had this little
18 inch
aluminum crowbar
and he picked it up and he said what do
you want to have a problem or what
and he didn't know i had a pistol right
there in my lap
and so i said yes i do and i shot him in
the face
and he died later at the hospital
and his girlfriend woke up
and said what what what's happening
to nothing i don't know what do you mean
and uh
anyways that's i'm not gonna get into
the nitty-gritty of it because that's
just gossip and there's no point that's
what came of it
uh the police came
i got arrested
i got second degree murder i did i was
16 years old
got charges i got charges in adult
i got 20 years in adult prison
uh the maximum possible sentence
i was terrified going into prison
because you know
people know what prisons like
enjoy they think they do i i guess i
would say
and you know school bullying's bad but
prison prison there's nowhere to go
there's no home to go to you're there
and i knew that i knew that um
if you get victimized once it'll never
stop in there it will never stop
and so
truthfully at 16 and 20 felt like a life
sentence
i see people saying like 20 years is not
that bad and things like that but
trust me it's in prison it's not 20
years it's it's 20 lifetimes
um
so
i got 20 years but it felt like a life
sentence to me so all my give a [ __ ]
were gone and i didn't want to be a
victim
i knew that much going in i didn't want
to be a victim if nothing else i knew
that
and so
i kind of just went crazy in there like
i didn't care if somebody talk if
somebody talked
slick it was going down that was the
bell immediately you know i mean and i
stabbed people and i got new time i got
new prison sentences in there i got
increased sentences in there for
stabbing people and
long story short
um
prison is about what you expect maybe
it's real boring i don't really have too
much too much to go into about that i
don't feel like it gave me anything
positive
at all
i feel like it was only a negative
experience
i deserved i had coming i deserved it i
have zero regrets about going to prison
i deserved every bit of it so so i'm not
here feeling sorry for myself about that
everything else yeah that no i i deserve
that 100 percent longer i feel but
there's a lot of self-loathing i feel
about that
and uh
what do you mean by about killing that
killing santiago
and so
i've been out
are you able to hear me okay because
your screen just cut out yeah sorry i'm
switching servers again it kind of
lagged out for a second i can hear you
and so
and so uh i've been out
five or six years
i had to start from square zero
all my family cut me off when i went to
prison
um so i have no fam i had i still have
no family
my mom tried to make
my mom tried to make um
try to make a connection when i got out
only when i got out but i went to prison
when i went when i got arrested she told
me she hoped i got the death penalty
um
i was a monster
it's like well
thank you creator dr frankenstein i
appreciate that assessment
um
so
we didn't talk for 20 years
and i got out and she wanted to
reconnect
and um
i tried
i couldn't forgive her i just couldn't
forgive her
and
she later died she had drank herself to
death over the years
um
and
i did tell her though i remembered the
good things she did for us you know not
just the bad but the good
the only thing i ever wanted her to
acknowledge was it
she was young
she didn't know how to parent and she
did a shitty job
oh we were bad kids that's all there was
to it we were bad kids
nobody ever had bad kids
like what she did nobody
you're the worst thing that ever
happened how do you feel about not being
able to forgive her
all i wanted was an acknowledgement
i guess i've forgiven her i guess i've
forgiven her internally but not a
hundred percent i don't think
because without that acknowledgement
[ __ ] that she [ __ ] up
i just can't get past there or yeah i
guess i can forgive i just can't get
over it
and uh
go ahead i see your i see you're poised
on the verge of yeah
looks like you know my tells well
anthony yeah cause i i was just gonna
kind of ask like you say you can't
forgive her but like
you know
whose fault is that
fine yeah i mean i can only i can only
control my emotions myself
i mean so that that's where i know it's
kind of weird but like
i'm not so sure right so i i would say
and i i mean anthony i'd sorry if i'm
interrupting and if you want to keep
going go for it but no no just to kind
of jump in for a second so i think like
something weird has happened with
forgiveness
where we've placed the burden of
responsibility
on like the person who does the
forgiving the victim the victim right
right which is sort of weird like i
think it's just interesting because i i
think that forgiveness is like yours to
give or not to give and it's entirely
your choice
you know just forgiveness earned
i think so
it's kind of isn't that what they say
that you have to earn somebody's
forgiveness and so yeah i guess i get
where you're i picked up what you're
putting down there yeah
right so so it's in in this i'm noticing
that there's like themes which you know
you're sharing a lot with me like i said
i don't know that i can figure things
out in two hours but you may be able to
and and just kind of noticing that like
you know what's the common denominator
who's to blame
you know this idea that if i want to be
a good person like i should forgive
right because we sort of associate that
we say like good people are the ones
that are forgiven if i don't forgive
what that also means is that like then
i'm a bad person and i haven't been
you know good enough my heart is not big
enough to where i can forgive my mom
who's never acknowledged any of the crap
that she's done to you
and and there's a part of me that says
like that's fine
right you don't you don't have to
actually forgive her like you don't need
to forgive and you don't need to forget
i think making peace with it
is one thing but i think that you can
make peace with it without forgiving you
can say that i will never forgive this
person for what they did
you know that can never be repaired
and i got the short end of the stick in
that relationship and i will
be disappointed and hate them as well as
love them and that can be like a
confusing piece to come to
but i don't think you need to forgive
her
you know especially if she never asked
for it
right
well because she didn't feel like she
needed forget there was she had done
nothing wrong in her eyes yeah in fact
she she and i want to emphasize here the
things i described my mom did to me i
was the favorite
my brother was the
she made it very obvious that he was the
least favorite he got it so much worse
than i did
and he kind of lucked out
and that she turned him over to the
state because he ended up at this boys
ranch that he loved and just so he kind
of lucked out in a way but also with a
horrible mom right yeah and so when i
confronted her years later after prison
i said well why did you do these things
to me i was imagining things she said
and i said oh am i imagining broken
am i imagining those broken teeth
i said you not you slammed my face
against the bathtub
and you knocked my oh and she broke my i
forgot to mention that my jaw got broken
in that as well so i had to have my jaw
wired shut after that as well
and i said so until you broke my jaw and
knocked out three of my teeth am i
imagining that she said i caught you
smoking
so it wasn't that she didn't remember
what she had at first alleged it was
that she thought she had caught me
smoking which i guess if that's good
enough to abuse your child but that
wasn't even the cause it was this shirt
so
to get over that is very difficult
because
like without the acknowledgement or the
asking of the forgiveness or even the
realizing that she needs forgiveness
it's very difficult for me to overcome
that
so i've been out now six years
starting from square zero like i said i
i i started out with call center jobs
and i i've just been pulling myself up
by the bootstraps as they say um
that's rough yeah that's been rough
because the felony is also a gift that
keeps on giving
a little known fast you can't rent you
can't rent a place with a felony on your
record
uh
you can't really get most jobs but yet
you also were supposed to work and and
live somewhere and live lawfully so i
don't understand how that conundrum
works for a lot of people but thankfully
through sheer dumb luck i guess i've
managed to scrape by so far and keep a
roof over my head and a job
and
then the coronavirus thing happened
and uh
i've been out of work
for quite a while now
year and a half
and uh i think idleness has been causing
i know it has i i've i went through i'm
gonna assume it was a depression
this last year months long like verge of
suicide
and i'm not exaggerating i mean
trying to figure out a reason to live
trying to figure out a reason to go to
tomorrow
and coming up empty
too cowardly to kill myself
and um
i had never experienced believe it or
not 20 years in prison never experienced
depression never experienced anything
like that
um
it was crippling it was horrible
i think it was the idleness
and uh
so
i've just been coasting along trying to
figure out what what the [ __ ] am i
supposed what am i supposed to do i'm
sorry i don't know if you i i'm gonna
try to stop cussing because i don't know
what how your format is on that um
but
i gotta figure out what i'm gonna do
with myself and you know and i don't
know
nothing nothing is appealing nothing is
appealing um i don't leave my house i'm
pretty much a shut-in at this point
so eventually i just said you know what
you gotta land on something
and so i'm going to college full-time
for computer programming
because like i said i'm pretty
intelligent i can pick things up pretty
easily and that looks like something
where even with a felony
you can at least make a reasonable
living
um
and so yeah that's what i'm doing and
it's it's going fine it's all right um i
i'm 4.0 gpa i'm in my sophomore year
i've been 4.0 every semester but
again i don't i don't apply myself i'm
unable to apply myself to this it's like
i can do the bare minimum to coast wow
okay if i got anything less than an a i
would actually apply myself i have to be
honest i'm pretty egotistical about my
grades but the fact that i'm able to
coast along and just get that i feel
like sort of is handicapping me in a way
um for the future
or maybe not i i i'm kind of torn
between that or are my motors going to
kick in when they need to kick in and
right now i can idle and so i'm just
idling you know and i i don't know the
answer that's some things i'm hoping you
can help me figure out am i lazy am i
unmotivated
uh i don't know
i'm very lazy i'll tell you that right
now
tell me about that
i would love to tell you about that
because that's something i would like to
talk about
um
small things that require no
intelligence or no thought or no no
present no challenge
i i i till the till the dishes are piled
up in the sink and i'm out of clean
clothes those things aren't getting done
until the floors look disgusting they're
not getting swept and mopped so the
table is covered in dust i'm not gonna
dust it
i hate that kind of thing i i don't hate
it i
and the interesting thing is
i don't hate it when i'm doing it i
dread it when i'm planning it when i'm
doing it it's sort of a zen thing you
get into where you just turn your brain
off and you go
and yet i dre i dread it right so i
don't know
but on the other hand if a pro if
something comes up and it seems really
really challenging and difficult and oh
god it's going to be brutal
let's go i'm on it and i will work
maniacally until in
done and so
so
is that a bit
i would say that would be a benefit if i
would feel the fill that other time was
something productive but i don't i feel
it with watching youtube and playing
video games and just time wasting reddit
and just time wasting do you do you have
fun playing video games and watching
youtube
watching youtube know i feel like i'm
actually addicted to uh youtube to be
honest with you i
it's addictive man it pulls you in
you're going to watch one thing and then
the next thing you know you're just
blindly clicking videos that sound
mildly interesting trying to find
something a video that you can actually
make it through to the end that's in
and it's like a vicious cycle and i will
keep you up till three in the morning
sometimes when i have to be in bed at
10.
um
that's something i struggle with a lot
my video game at the love hate
relationship i play world of tanks i'm
terrible at it but
what are you gonna do one of us if you
say that a video game is a is a
love-hate relationship that means you're
one of us
right absolutely if you don't hate at
least half eight your video game you're
not doing it right
hmm
so anthony what can i help you with
well
i guess just like how do how do i
okay another thing i guess i'm not done
okay um
i have not been with a woman since i've
been out
i've not really seen any that i've been
attracted to
to be honest with you that aren't in a
relationship or whatever the case may be
but also i just don't seem to feel a sex
drive that other people feel like ever
well i mean i i masturbate i stop
every month or so once a month or so but
that's quite low i know i i see the
urges that other people have and i've
never really felt those i've never felt
very
very uh i guess that a very cerebral
i've never felt very
very sexually uh
driven
and uh
oh but a lot of people ask me what are
you gonna hook up with a woman man
and i would like to i'm not saying i
wouldn't like to very much like to
but i just don't have that impulse to go
out and get it i'm waiting on her to
knock on my door i suppose
you mentioned that there's damage to
your legs and you feel pain is that
right yeah yeah i learned pretty bad how
are you i know it's kind of like a weird
question do you know if you have like
any atrophy of the of the quadriceps
muscles
so i don't have a calf muscle at all i
don't know let me see if you can see
what we're working with here
i don't know may i don't know what the
quadricep is so i don't know thighs are
your thighs atrophied
so no but my calf muscle is okay um and
my feet are deformed i have horrible
sciatica
uh back pain um
just like
and it's getting worse like i've been to
doctors and they pretty much tell me i'm
imagining things or that there's nothing
they can do about it basically is what
it boils down to
um
but then they don't look either they
don't they never touch you they won't
actually cut your back and i don't know
if that's how you examine a back but i
would think that touching the back as a
professional would be a good place to
start they won't even lay a finger on
you they won't even touch you
they ask you questions they send you in
for an mri that's about that big you get
that much of them to look out of your
back oh no we don't see anything sorry
try these exercises try these stretches
those don't work oh then we're out of
ideas
and so
that's very frustrating like a straight
leg test where they lift up your heel
do they do this i don't know
i don't i think maybe a physical
therapist did
i'm a [ __ ] psychiatrist
you're supposed to do that
okay so
i would like to learn
okay
why am i so lonely and alone
can that be changed and if not how do i
make peace with that
and
um
how do i find a purpose in life like i
don't
like computer programming is just for
it's just something to do i feel no
passion for it whatsoever it's just it's
interesting i'll give it that it's
interesting and it's challenging but
it's not something i'm like
ah this is something i'm really driven
to do and i used to feel that way about
things and i
i still do about some things you know
politics but
i
probably shouldn't honestly i i got
involved in prison politics pretty
heavily
as a white person
and
i'm a pretty virulent anti-semite
um
and i feel very strongly about that i'm
not a racist but i'm very anti-semitic
um
and so
that's not something that's really
socially acceptable in 2021
and uh
is what it is i don't care i believe
what i believe and i
i know what i know and so it is what it
is it's not up for debate or negotiation
um
but
i want to know what to do with my life i
want to know how do i find passion about
something
anything i used to believe in in
religion well i was the first thing to
go
you know although interestingly the more
i study quantum physics in the beginning
of the universe the more that just
sounds like god so i don't know maybe
the more i learn the more
the more religious i become
interestingly um so i guess i'm just
more questioning on a religious aspect
but
that really doesn't that institution
doesn't have the the faith for me it
once had the government has lost all
credibility with me long since probably
just as i got older
um maybe that's natural you see you know
how the sausage is being made and that's
an ugly process in general
um
and so politics has lost all of its
that institution has lost all its
credibility for me the media has lost so
like
what do i believe in i guess that's what
i'm what am i to believe in maybe that's
what i'm trying to get to what am i to
believe in
do you feel lonely
yes
and no i love solitude but at the same
time i feel so lonely sometimes i see
being with other people looks like fun
from the outside
being with other people is a trying
chore for me tell me about that
it's nothing not bad it just it feels
tiring i i at the end of it i want the
whole time i want to go home
i don't say that but i'm just like i'm
just like i'd rather be home doing my
thing anyway i'm out
what what what is it that's trying about
being with other people
what drains you
they're trying to be interest facade
perhaps putting on a facade
um
because in reality so i displayed a
little bit of personality here you know
i can make a little joke now and then
but in reality everybody that is a
facade if it were just me being me i'm
probably the most boring
monotone person you've ever met in your
life until i get interested in a topic
and then i will just spew
this wall of
knowledge at you about that subject
you know more than you ever wanted to
know about this subject probably you
never wanted to know anything about it
but i knew it right
and i want to share it with you and
that's the only thing i ever get excited
about is things that i know learning
knowledge
um i love learning i love i love knowing
things and i love learning and if there
were a way to monetize that that would
be fantastic but
like being a professional student
yes that would be amazing
okay
hmm
i'm gonna need like a minute to think
yeah yeah process i'm ready for you
so you know anthony my first reaction is
that i would expect to feel emotionally
worse listening to your
story like it sounds like you've been
so you know once again we don't diagnose
things on stream
but there's one diagnosis that comes to
mind which is a diagnosis that one of um
so there was a nurse who worked in the
emergency room where i trained or did
most of my emergency shifts
and so she was like awesome is awesome i
presume i'm sure she's still working
there so she was like older wiser you
know i think a lot of times we think
about doctors as experts but in my
experience like wisdom comes from nurses
more often than not
and and so
i think that um she had an interesting
diagnosis so sometimes we'd see these
people honestly like yourself to be
completely honest like 16 years old
usually adolescents
uh a list of different diagnoses
um a list of like you know you look at
their like chart and it's like they were
in this foster home went to juvie for a
year like we'd get these like 17 year
old kids
really nasty to talk to
you know like you go into the room and
they're they're like you know
kind of
acidic
not pleasant
um and so her diagnosis was [ __ ] life
syndrome
so it's not any of the fancy stuff
that's in the chart it's not depression
it's not bipolar it's not substance use
it's not trauma like they have all of
those things
but the real diagnosis is [ __ ] life
syndrome
and it was one of the most like
eye-opening
um
kind of like
teaching points for me that like we can
put all kinds of labels on you right but
like i don't think that any of those
labels actually capture who you are
um you know convicted felon um you know
chad with a 4.0 gpa without studying
computer science you know like
there are all kinds of labels like
trauma victim like absolutely like all
those labels check out
you know i i don't think cerebral is
another example
i don't think they're all bad
um someone who can't forgive which i
think is fair enough i don't think you
should try very much harder to be honest
but i don't think any of those are who
you are and so oddly enough like what i
see is like a dude who's basically had
some like really really bad luck have
you made some bad choices sure but i
don't know that you were ever taught
what a good choice is
um
you know should you be held responsible
for
shooting someone absolutely
and yet should you also should we also
like
i don't know how else to say this i
don't think we should overreact to that
data point in determining who you are
right it's an action
like is it a bad action is it a horrific
action is it an action that you may
never get forgiveness for sure i think
all of those things are correct
i'm not implying otherwise
and at the same time it's still an
action is it a catastrophic one
absolutely but i don't think it
determines who you are and this is where
like you know i draw a little bit on on
kind of eastern philosophy and i think a
big part of that is that
the human ego identifies with actions
you cannot be a failure that's not a
thing you can fail
but you can't be a failure but the human
brain and especially our ego our hamkar
identifies with our actions right so
even if you like look at me and you say
like i'm a doctor like that's not a real
thing
like very s
precisely
how do you know that someone is a doctor
well i have like a piece of paper that
has a medical degree
but i would be the first to say the
moment i got that medical degree is not
the moment i became a doctor it happened
like six months later
but i i like know when it
but it's not anything that you can
measure i mean you can in because
there's a societal you know agreement
that i'm a doctor
um
but i as and so i think that like a lot
of this is like there's a lot of stuff
here for sure and a lot of it's bad for
sure have you been through a lot
absolutely has that screwed you over in
some very fundamental ways like
absolutely
so like did you miss core developmental
milestones that help you understand like
how to engage with other people yes
oddly enough i find myself not being
hopeless
so i think that just hearing you and
listening to you and like just like
seeing the way that you relate
like are you what i'm sort of getting
the sense of is that your
how can i say this
i think ninety percent of what holds you
back is what you've had to learn to
survive
and so the good news is that like i
think you can unlearn that stuff
and you can i'm not i'm not kidding
anthony when i say you could on your
50th birthday
be married have a stable job be paying a
mortgage and like live in the burbs like
i don't think that that's an
unreasonable thing for you to have
nine years from now
right like
is it is it a long road sure is it gonna
be tough absolutely
have you pulled yourself up by your
bootstraps it sounds like you're in the
process are there a lot of like oh i own
my own house right now
okay out in the mountains
uh i got a beautiful house like honestly
it's my dream house it's it it was it's
still a crap hole but it's i built this
office myself like everybody that's
coming along so that's i'm making
significant progress but i just i feel
like that other person to share with is
a vital missing component
but it also fills me with dread the
thought of having to go out and
obtain that and and and put myself out
there and
and share my life with somebody else you
know what i mean that sounds very trying
yeah so what what fills you with dread
about finding someone
so every girl every girl i've ever
expressed any interest in
only likes me as a friend or boy that
she sure likes me like a brother you
know i get that a lot friends um okay so
you really are one of us
right and this is going to come off as
judgmental but that's only because i am
judgmental and as shitty as that is
that's who i am as a person and they try
to hook me up with anybody
it's usually a bridge troll to be honest
and it's like is that how little you
think of me
that this is somebody you think i would
be sexually attracted to right i see
your disgust on your face and and like i
said i'm a judgmental person
unfortunately you see disgust on my face
oh maybe i'm misreading maybe i'm
misreading what are you reading i'm
curious
just when i when i when i said the thing
about the bridge troll you look like a
disapproving look perhaps perhaps i
misinterpreted
um but nevertheless um those are my
feelings and uh i must be true to myself
um
i know i'm not that attractive but i
want okay so i put myself at about a
three maybe but i'm looking for like an
eight
and so i have not and but i also don't
work out i also don't go anywhere to
where i can meet anybody
i also don't uh
i also don't actually talk to any women
other than when they engage the
conversation like in a professional
level or whatever the case may be or men
i'm it's not just women don't get me
wrong i i don't have any friends i i i'm
pretty much a hermit shut-in
i leave when i need to leave to go do
something i come back as soon as i can
and other than that i i'm content in my
house
um
uh probably a lot of social anxiety
i i'm not even gonna say that because
i'm not gonna self-diagnose i don't know
anything about it sure so
i would like to
i would like i would like to
like i said come to terms with that
aspect of myself or figure out a way to
overcome it
um i would like to know who i am as a
person
i know that's a lot to ask for but
um
what makes it a lot to ask for
i'll tell ya
the question i always dread in a rat in
an interview
tell me about yourself
i i don't know what's i don't have
anything i come up empty
i come up empty i have no likes i have
no dip i have not many dislikes i have a
couple's pretty specific ones but not
many dislikes
um
i'm pretty
indifferent about everything i'm just
like i can take it or leave it you want
to go here let's go i don't care i have
no opinion on the matter right
um
so i almost have no i'm all i feel like
i almost lack a personality in a way
because
if you were to ask me to list 10 things
i'm interested in
physical things not subjects that i can
learn about because i could list you 100
of those
why why
but why do you discount subjects from
like things that you're interested in
what i mean is okay so if you ask me 10
things i wanted to go out and do
actually do in the world
i would struggle with that
okay
in general yeah i just i don't know who
i am and i don't i don't know how to
start
learning what i like in the world and
what i don't like in the world because
36 i was incarcerated okay
those are the years where you go to
college those are the years where you're
in your 20s and you're out and whatever
people in their 20s do i've only seen
sitcoms about it so i don't know um jail
stunted him yes but form poker butt farm
poker that's exactly right um jail
stunted me um i missed out on a lot of
the the um the the the experiences that
people that people have and so
okay can you possibly know anything
about the world yes yes let me just let
me think okay
let me just compose my thoughts
so let's think about what are the issues
here because there's a lot
okay
thank you builder or
give me a second
yes please take all the time you need
so
i don't know where to put this okay
okay
uh
okay so let's i'm just gonna think out
loud all right so you let me know
so you've given me a lot of pieces
i'm gonna try to assemble them in some
way
feel free to jump in if you feel like
there's a piece that doesn't fit
properly
so the first thing is
you got born into [ __ ] life syndrome
okay that's gonna screw you in a lot of
ways so like let's think about the
impacts of like so we get conditioned
by our upbringing and we get all this
super basic conditioning like how to
relate to other people
um even like how to understand what we
feel
uh
even like discovering what we
discovering what we like
and who we are
so who we are comes from external
conditioning actually so like this is
something so let's just like take a step
back and understand what's going on okay
so when you're like a three-year-old kid
your brain is absorbing all kinds of
stuff it's like understanding like how
does gravity work like what's the
purpose of smiling
like who am i so identity in its most
original form is actually formed by the
reflections of people around us
so i don't know like if i'm a if i'm a
six month old like i don't know who i am
i don't know what i'm feeling all i know
is that something is unpleasant so it is
the way that people relate to me that
help me understand oh this
unpleasantness is something called
hunger and if i you know get some food
or drink some milk like then i will feel
better maybe this unpleasantness is like
i need a diaper change so like the way
that we make sense of the world and how
we understand the world works is all
like taught to us in our early
upbringing okay
so you're screwed there so far we'll get
to that okay you're not screwed forever
but i think you know in terms of how do
i form relationships how do i love
someone like i don't know that you know
how to love someone
um and we'll get to that in a second
expand before you move on yeah sure
so
i try to get love by buying people
things i try to keep friendships by
buying people things with money or
extravagant gestures and it never works
i found that all my friendships end the
first time i say no to some outrageous
favor that i don't want to do
they fall off the face of the earth and
so that's how i relate to love please
carry on yeah so that's case in point
right so like that's what i'm saying is
like i i don't think you were ever
taught like how to form a healthy
relationship
and so you're gonna enter into these
self-fulfilling prophecies of like enter
into a relationship and so cerebrally
like this is hard because essentially
what you're doing is your intellect
is like carrying you
upstream against like a tide of like
empathic blindness so you don't know
like normal humans and i don't mean to
be denigrating when i say that but i i
genuinely do think that you've like
missed some mate like regular
opportunities and when i when i said i
think it's important to acknowledge that
because a lot of us like take this for
granted right like i grew up with two
loving parents so like it wasn't hard
for me to learn how to love my kids
because i was taught like i know how to
interact with a two-year-old because
i've been on the receiving end of it
right i'm not trying to make a
comparison i'm just saying that i've
come to appreciate so many advantages
that i had that like other people don't
have and if we want to fix a problem we
have to start by understanding like
where it comes from
so i think you missed a lot of different
milestones so there's like concrete work
that you need to do about learning how
to behave in a relationship um you know
how to understand even what you feel
um
discovering like who you are so i want
you to imagine that you know when you've
got a six-year-old who goes to like
t-ball practice
and hits a home run
then like
the way that people respond to that
six-year-old helps that six-year-old
like understand who he is
right so like that six-year-old benz is
like oh i'm a champion cool
and then the six-year-old goes around
and tells people i'm a champion i'm a
champion i'm a champion and if he has
poor parents they will encourage him to
think that he is a champion and better
than all other human beings and he will
become a spoiled brat
if he has parents that are a little bit
better or other people like or other
kids who are like hey you're not a
champion i'm a champion
then you know like he'll learn over time
that okay i can be a champion but like
other people can be champions too
there's just so much like subconscious
programming that goes on with like
healthy human relationships and our
brain is sort of wired to like absorb
this stuff like a sponge and i think
that unfortunately like your brain
absorbed a lot of bad things or like
unfortunate lessons
right like like in terms of how you
establish relationships how you deal
with dissatisfaction within
relationships right so like it's yelling
at people blaming others i think that
you have some of that programming baked
in
but through
virtue of your cerebral nature and
self-reflection and like a lot of for
lack of a better term spiritual work i
think you've learned how to not be those
things but i would not be surprised if
under periods of stress some of those
behaviors activate
so you're not instantly instantly tell
me instantly go to anger when i like
under stress
i
either shut down yep
is the best i can describe it
almost like when it burst into tears as
weird as that sounds like a child
like just helplessly like ah or
anger
you know
i was backing out of a spot at
mcdonald's
and the car behind me honked
you know i stopped my car i put it in
the park i got out i went up to the car
and i started screaming at that car what
are you honking about and only when the
window rolled down and i realized it was
a woman with a little girl in there did
i say oh i apologize and i got back in
my car and i went about my business
and that's not me generally that very
much surprised me i have to be honest
and i didn't even feel like i was under
a particularly lot of stress
um
but
you know i also find myself binge eating
late at night
um i'm a chronic heavy drug user
right now of marijuana
from the time i wake up to the time i go
to sleep i'm high
um
and so i'm like am i binge eating or do
i have the munchies because because
what's funny is
maybe you can help me answer this
because i'll get up and i'll find myself
in the fridge binge eating and i look at
the clock and it's always about 1103
1104 at night like 11 o'clock comes and
all my restraints fall and if i'm still
watching youtube at that time i ain't
going to sleep till like three in the
morning it's not like is that a thing
where after a certain time you're a
straight out yes it's absolutely a thing
so if let's just talk about binge eating
for a second
so i'm the same way by the way
10 to 11 is my time too
and and so this is where if we
so
our brain
has impulses
and as our brain gets fatigued
especially our frontal lobes our ability
to restrain impulses goes down so if you
look at for example like i don't know
how to say this but
you know
it's easier to go to bed at 10 sometimes
than it is at like 12 or 1
because like at 10 even though you're
less tired you have enough like frontal
lobe function that you can restrain your
ability to stay up and then once you
cross into like midnight and then your
brain is fatigued you can't pull
yourself away from things as powerfully
right right
we absolutely see an increase in
impulsive behavior and binge eating
because your brain is just tired and you
can't control yourself anymore right
like you're fatigued
um
but yeah so like i said i think that you
know as you get under periods of stress
like that programming is kind of baked
in it's very like subconscious in terms
of how your neurons have been wired and
like you know when i feel mad when i
feel frustrated or when i feel
frightened because i can imagine that
actually your physiologic response is
one of a startling in fear
and then adrenaline pops through your
system and then like your brain is like
kind of goes into fight or flight mode
and since you spent 20 years in prison
where
flight is an option
you've adapted to fight with when you
have an adrenaline response right so now
i'm kind of getting ahead of myself
because i want to start with like let's
start with let's say
[ __ ] life syndrome which you're going to
have a lot of it's an uphill battle bro
i'm sorry to say like it's just an
uphill battle that's just the truth of
it
the second thing is that i think that
what's happened is you've adapted to
your circumstances so you've learned how
to survive
right and like learning how to survive
involves a second layer of programming
which is you know how do i deal with
conflict well like you know you shift
someone because like that's what you got
to do in prison
and and so you know in that moment like
this is like it's not in a sense it's
kind of not your fault because your
brain has been wired a particular way i
still think you're responsible but you
know if you think about the instinctual
reaction of like fight or flight and how
you respond to that if we think about
you know like a veteran who was in a war
who's got ptsd and then a door slams and
they like they think they're under
attack our brain is wired and responds a
particular way
so i think half of what we're dealing
with the shitlife syndrome half of what
we're dealing with is the adaptations to
shitlife syndrome and this is where i
think actually there's a lot of stuff
that you can work on
so um you know you i think that in some
ways uh
anthony you're very cerebral but i also
think it sounds like you're incredibly
rigid you don't sound open-minded to me
so i think that this is where
so like like i think in some directions
you're willing to learn but once your
mind gets made up so like when you talk
about anti-semitism for example when you
talk about other things or like when you
talk about the bridge trolls you know so
so it's interesting because you're
open-minded like except for some issues
in which case i'm a three and i deserve
an eight and like there's a lot there
you know i i wasn't responding with no
deserve hope to get but no you're
absolutely right about the rigidity
thank you and your and
the way you put it was perfect once my
mind is made up because i don't make up
my mind easily in fact that's something
i have a very hard time doing but once i
make up my mind it is made up
so so then i think the the challenge
there is that i want you to think for a
second take a step back
and imagine all of the conclusions that
you have been forced to accept over the
last let's say 30 years
right and so what's happening is you've
got a lot of conclusions which have been
made up for a good reason but like
they're
they're adaptations to situations which
you don't exist in anymore
right so like the way that you relate
like the way that you love someone
is like confusing because you clearly
love your mom she taught you what love
is and she was incredibly abusive
so you know i imagine that it's gonna
feel very strange for you if you ever go
on a date and like someone expresses
compassion and so then what you end up
doing is like
you know you play the game the way that
your intellect has told you it's to be
played which is like okay how do i get
someone to like me i like do things for
them that's what happens in a
relationship but then you sort of enter
into the self-fulfilling prophecy which
is kind of like bullying where there's
something and i hate to break this to
you but i think you are the common
denominator that's a interesting
thing
okay so let's just talk about this for a
second because when a lot of times
people's shame and sense of failure
kind of piles onto this idea of being a
common denominator
but i think there's a really tricky
thing to understand is that if you are
the common denominator the power to
change is also in your hands
right that's interesting yeah it's true
so like if you kind of think about it
let's just be honest because your
intellectual mind is saying hey i'm the
common denominator like it's something
to do with me and that's where you have
to be kind of careful because if you've
grown up with bullying
what your mind automatically does is oh
it's like my fault and there's something
fundamentally wrong with me but chances
are it's some kind of behavior
right like so as you kind of noted that
kids can get a lot of social status by
standing up to you
and so early on you know you didn't
respond to kids in a particular way
which like sort of sets you out as a
target and then when you go to prison
you realize oh like i can't be a target
anymore and then you kind of swung the
pendulum the other way and then you're
yelling at you know mom's in the
mcdonald's parking lot because like
damned if because you had to learn that
it was like survival it was adaptation
right and that's gonna echo
and so probably what you're dealing with
is some combination of the two where at
times you feel like
you know the other shoe is gonna drop
and like no one is gonna care about you
and you're gonna wind up getting bullied
and like if people express compassion
you know like you don't know how to
handle it
um and then on the flip side maybe you
go into survival mode but it's like
really hard to be like kind of tranquil
and in the middle
because i think the really interesting
thing is like you know how do you think
you are coming across in this interview
i don't know i to be honest with you i'm
trying to drop all my guards and just be
as honest as i can so i'm not really
even trying to focus on that i
understand that so how does that feel
fine because you're a complete and total
stranger and i'll never see you
nor will i ever see anybody in chat
would i share any of these things with
somebody i would ever see again i i
think no i would have a really hard time
on i'm so i'm burdening myself like that
so let's play this tape through to the
end
if we were gonna see you what so like
you're like you're saying that there's
no consequence because we're never gonna
see you again right
right let's pretend that
where i'm gonna see like we're gonna see
each other
we're gonna like hang out once a week
for the next four weeks
what would you be afraid of me believing
about you after this conversation like
what do you think you're how do you
think you're coming across
smart maybe i i i'm at a loss i just i
don't understand how other people know
things like that i don't know the answer
to your question i'm sorry yeah so that
that's totally fine you don't need to so
i think that's kind of telling because
i want you to just point i want to point
out to you that you're afraid of being
judged right that's why you would you're
like you're afraid of being judged but
as we tunnel down into what is the
judgment that you're afraid of you come
up empty
so this general all right
so this is really important anthony so
what that means
is that
the fear that you have is like an echo
from a primitive state of your brain
so like there's like there's no
there's no like nuance or specificity to
it it's just like i can't tell people
how i feel otherwise bad [ __ ] happens
you know like the one time you're
authentic with your mom and you're like
wow it sounds like you have trouble
relating to people at work it's just
like a simple observation that's
completely authentic and boom
you're screwed so i think almost like a
ptsd kind of thing where you're you've
learned that like being authentic with
people is tough but let's be straight
bro like you call in women bridge trolls
you're voicing being anti-semitic
you know you're telling people that you
killed someone
and
are i think generally speaking people
like you
like i think i don't think that like
chat i don't know i'm not looking at
chat and i encourage you not to but i
think that like you know people can
respect you
despite these things that are negative
and i think part of that comes from like
owning the things that are negative in
your life right
and so i think there's a really tricky
thing and this is kind of how i would
recommend you move forward is that you
keep on putting on a mask whereas like
if you really want to form a connection
with someone you have to like let people
in on the inside
and then it's terrifying because then we
may think you're a racist [ __ ] which
you could be
but just because you're
yeah but i'm also a good person i feel
like there's a dichotomy yeah i i i
agree right so i think that people can
be you know you can the people are not
like black or white
and so i you know i would and we'll get
to the rigid thinking and stuff later
but so i i think it's kind of
interesting because what you're afraid
of is like you're literally like having
a conversation with thousands of people
on the internet and and you're like
being relatively authentic i don't get
the sense that you're bsing us
um
and
you're afraid of some consequence which
makes perfect sense
but at the same time like the more that
you tunnel down into like oh what are
they gonna think and you're like i don't
really know
so then it's like a very primitive fear
that doesn't actually have like legs to
stand on does that make sense
well it's rejection i know what i'm
afraid of it's rejection because it's
consistent
i've never successfully asked a woman or
a girl out through school or is it i've
never successfully managed that the one
time i had sex
i was in my brother's town and she was
just
the very friendly girl in town who was
pretty much the man maker um if you went
to her house you're pretty set so that's
how that went down
and
it was awkward and uncomfortable and
and embarrassing and i did not enjoy it
i got zero enjoyment out of it zero
um
so
yeah so
so here's what i'm getting the sense of
like honestly anthony what i feel more
than anything else talking to you is
that you're dormant
like i get the sense that there's
there's a whole
life and person
and like positivity that's just been
like slumbering and you just haven't had
the chance
to like wake up and really like
be for lack of a better term
and so i think you know when you were
talking about like motivation and
feeling lazy like i wasn't worried at
all i think your
the problem is that there's just nothing
to motivate you like
so i'm pretty sure that when a challenge
kicks in you'll be fine like i think
that you're gonna do great it's gonna be
a bumpy ride so when the challenge kicks
in you're gonna find out that your
habits are lacking but i think generally
speaking
my recommendation to you if you're lazy
is like do more not less like don't if
you don't feel motivated don't go
hunting for artificial motivation i know
it sounds kind of weird don't just like
wake up every day and be like oh my god
like i need to do the dishes because
like that's motivation i'm gonna find my
internal self i'd say
you've missed out on life you've missed
out on 41 years of life basically
so what i'd say first and foremost is
like start living right like that's your
job forget about purpose forget about
making the world a better place you've
missed out
so missed out on all kinds of things
being challenged failing even then i
know you say you've gotten rejected a
lot but i don't think that you've ever
gotten rejected maybe you have but i
feel like every failure you've had has
been part of a rigged game
i don't know that you've ever been on
your a game and really been the best
human you can possibly be
when you ask out a girl i don't know
that you've had a career and like you
know been in shape and and like you know
done some emotional work and like worked
with a therapist like i don't think that
you've you know you've never played a
fair [ __ ] game so you got to be super
careful about the identity of i am a
failure when you've never played a fair
game
and something tells me so i'd say that
you know programming is going to get
harder you can slide through with 4.0
for now but i'd say let it get harder
and then rise to the challenge
and then keep climbing and eventually
you'll equilibrate and i think that'll
be like fulfilling for you even if you
don't love programming at least you're
not going to be [ __ ] bored
right because your enemy right now is
like idleness and
you're slumbering like i feel like i'm
talking to a slumbering giant and i
don't know if you're gonna turn into a
programmer i don't know if you're gonna
do like
analytics for like cambridge analytica
and and you know help promote
anti-semitism around the world or like
whatever you end up doing you know but i
think something challenging is gonna it
is
is gonna engage you right and it's gonna
demand of you like what you look at that
now this is a facial expression we
haven't seen at all
what is it what are you smile
no you've smiled here
this is different you made a really good
joke and then i was thinking that would
be great if i could put that into action
but unfortunately i don't feel like my
anti-semitic semitism is an exportable
exportable good
i'm pretty sure that some people would
disagree with you but i think what i saw
for the first time anthony was
excitement
we've seen you smile we've seen you
laugh i don't think i've ever seen
excitement even now you're kind of
lagging so it was frozen and kind of an
excited
frame but
i i think i got a touch i wasn't sure
but you know i think that there's
there's something when i when i speak
about this stuff i get that there's like
actually like a very very there are a
couple embers
buried in the coals
you know like there's a bunch of ash and
there's something down there that i
think just needs to wake up
so practically i'd say keep studying cs
by all means
um you know you'll rise up i think also
in terms of like sexuality i think
there's been a lot of dormancy
right when i kind of think about it it's
sort of like you're rusty
you know so so it and not rusty isn't
just in terms of a physical sense like a
lot of sexuality has to do with like
emotional intimacy and things like that
which i think that you're rusty on or
never really learned how to do
um i do think there are a couple of
really high points i know this sounds
kind of weird especially if we're
talking about sexuality but really not
related but i think your hitchhiking
experience really gives me hope
because what i'm what i'm really hearing
from that experience is that you met
like random people
and you were able to connect with them
in like an authentic and and like
meaningful way
right and like even when you talk about
it like it's some of the best years of
your life and like why was that
it's because you don't have to worry
about what people thought right like you
were just you
and like you were didn't have a house
didn't have a job like you were in
nothing
you didn't have to give anyone any gifts
and what did they do for you anthony
it helped me
absolutely and so just think about that
for a second that like when you are who
you are and you have nothing to give and
they don't owe you anything
that they see something within you that
is worth helping
and i see it too i'm pretty sure all of
chat sees it too is that you are
absolutely someone who is scary and also
worth helping
you know you're you have a certain like
cranky bareness to you
and i guess that a lot that am i upset
but i think i just have resting [ __ ]
face because
right now i feel completely new this is
a neutral face yeah you certainly but
that too is also like adaptive
right
where like you want to have neutral
affect so people who grow up in abusive
households learn how to become invisible
like because being noticed in some way
is like you know
i can imagine in prison resting [ __ ]
face helps you
like it's actually quite adaptive and so
i think the biggest
problem anthony that i think you you
have to face and this is going to be
hard
is there's a life like there's
absolutely life i'm not worried about
that at all i think the problem is that
discovering that life requires you to
undo all of the things that how can i
say this when you go to prison at the
age of 16 and that feels like 20 life
sentences
the only way you can survive that is to
numb yourself to the prospect of life
i don't need life anymore right that's
the only way you survive your 18th
birthday in prison 21st birthday in
prison 30th birthday in prison 35th
birthday in prison
the only way you survive that is by
giving up on life entirely and saying
like
i have to exactly what i did yes
any kind of joy
goal
not just dead you had to kill it bro
right when a tiny bit of hope on your
21st birthday
you don't dare hope hope hope keeps
wanting to sprout up in your garden like
a weed and there you are every day
plucking it out
and then you
you wind up and you're asking like i
don't know what to get out of life and
like that's right bro because you spent
20 years doing your level best to get
nothing out of life
right so i i don't think i know it
sounds kind of weird but i don't think
you need to actually discover
what you want from life i don't think
it's this deep
personal journey
that you have to like go and spend time
in the himalayas and things like that to
like discover what you want life i think
all you've got to do is stop pulling out
the weeds
and you've gotten so good at pulling out
the weeds that
you know it'll it'll come up and this is
where you know i think there are a lot
of things that you're doing that are
quite amazing like 4.0 gpa in computer
programming is not easy i imagine for a
41 year old dude to do
right like so you've got you've
definitely got like things in your
corner that are working for you
and so oddly enough i think your road
forward is not about like
doing more it's actually about stopping
to do what you have learned how to do
um
is that can i keep going
yes please do okay
so
a couple of things to think about
practically so i think you've got to
think long and hard i'm gonna zero in on
the bridge troll for a second okay
you've gotta think long and hard about
some of these things that you accept for
yourself which i think you really need
to reconsider
so the first is like in your mind you're
a three i don't think you're three maybe
you are i don't know i'd like i'd like
stick you to five okay
and that you want an eight and that's
fine but i think that when you really
think about what's important to you in a
relationship you don't sound like you're
horny all the time
you know you don't sound like like
you're i mean it sounds like you want
someone
who you know if i could find someone for
you it's not so much about the physical
attractiveness as it is about
someone who can kind of like just listen
to you talk about stuff right like you
just need well because i like a
conversation i like i like a smart
person who can give back as good as they
receive i like a conversationalist
sure so if that's what you like and i
suspect that that's actually i know you
like it but i don't know if that's what
you need
i i think what you need is probably like
a good woman who makes you think sh
you're having a conversation but is
actually just letting you talk
and i say this as someone who's being
married to what i i know what it's like
to be someone who likes to talk and
likes to think that they have a
conversation but really what we like to
do people like us anthony we just like
to talk
right talking is great yes
and and we like to think we're having a
conversation but if someone's you know
letting us speak our peace
about how the jews are ruining
everything like you're going to love
that that's what you're that's what
you're going to want
yes i go on those tangents sometimes i
do go on those tangents um
you know i i
so it's like a cerebral maybe you can
help me with this because it's like a
cerebral wanting a family it's like a
cerebral wanting a wife
but really it's i want to impress other
people and i think everything i do is is
in an attempt to impress and i was
actually this was just something that
came to me the last two three days i was
thinking
you know when i was a kid i was a i was
a compulsive liar like
outrageous lies not that i invented the
question mark but uh
i i remember when i was a kid i said i
i was probably 11. i said i do like 120
mile an hour fastball and of course
everybody said i was full of [ __ ]
because i knew nothing about
baseball whatsoever and i was just
trying to impress people and it feels
like
every decision i make
i wanted the car what will other what
will what will other people think about
will other people be impressed by will
it make other people
yeah i i
yeah i feel like i i feel like i try to
impress people
or the other way i say things that are
shocking yep
right
is it just attention-seeking behavior or
don't no what it is
it's it's [ __ ] distraction from what
you really are
right so you want to go you want to show
people the best parts of you or the
worst parts of you as long as they don't
see you
oh
that is interesting
well i but i feel like i have nothing to
offer yep that's why you don't want to
see it have no opinions like i said i
have no opinion no of course you haven't
got a doctor that's not true that's not
true i have no like but hold on a second
wrong preferences and hold on hold on
but there's another problem that you're
doing which is you're setting up a
rigged game for yourself
when you say like so earlier we had this
conversation about like i'm not
interested in anything
and then you like you walked yourself
back and you're like no i'm interested
in hundreds of things if you asked me
about an activity i wouldn't be able to
come up with a single one
so it's like here's here's the test
you're able to pass this test and so
some part of your mind is like [ __ ] that
we don't want to pass the test let's
pick the one that we're going to fail
right whereas like who you you may just
not be like a doer you're like a thinker
you're like a philosopher
you're like one of these guys that like
thinks deeply okay
yeah of course it's okay
how do you live like that
you hang out with other people who can
have conversations with you how do you
how do you feed yourself like that
how do you physically make money how do
you make money like that by being a
thinker
yeah
so it's paying people to think
i mean so any author who writes a book
is someone that people
okay okay okay fair enough right i got
it yeah any any video essayist
are you you're a thinker yeah you're
absolutely right yeah it's like you have
to i have to be a little more
imaginative with the medium yeah you're
absolutely right so i'm not saying you
should steer away from computer
programming i think it's a really good
so i'm on that
but i think long term and this is also
where like who you are and how you get
paid ideally we'll we'll get together
but honestly bro from like how far
behind you are i wouldn't shoot for that
yet
okay you know i think there's lower
hanging fruit i'm not going to tell you
maybe it's a mean thing to say but i
wouldn't shoot for you know you've just
got so many like people who can afford
to be thinkers
oh yeah
sometimes don't have
they have some advantages that you're
playing with a handicap so i i'd like
shoot and you by all means like we
should cry over that if anything right
that life is so [ __ ] unfair to you
that other people have opportunities
that you may not have but on the flip
side i could absolutely totally see
a really interesting kind of angle of
hey i killed someone for 20 you know i
spent 20 years in prison here's how i
made sense of my life like you could
wind up on [ __ ] oprah and and you
know lifetime and like you could like
put your like you could go down that
route like a lot of people are looking
for guidance and if you're able to find
it you may be able to help other people
as well like i don't know
right when i say asperger's does that do
anything for you
because i read the descriptions of all
these various ailments and they all seem
to match me perfectly so that
yeah so here's here's here's what i'll
say about asperger's okay so if you want
that's where you should really get a
full mental health evaluation but
what i will say is that
if you look at the symptoms of
asperger's
there are many things that can
contribute to those kinds of symptoms
like i've already explained to you you
know a lot of hypotheses besides
asperger's or autism spectrum that can
contribute to your cognitive and
empathic and friendship difficulties
certainly so the symptoms of asperger's
or autism spectrum have multiple causes
so sometimes it's autism spectrum but
frankly we see this in the gaming
population as a whole
i was talking to literally like my
pediatrician the pediatrician of my kids
and she was saying that as technology
usage has increased
she is getting like more asperger's like
presentations from children but she
doesn't think that all these kids are on
the spectrum she thinks it has something
to do with the way that they interact
with technology and how it shapes their
brains in terms of like social
interactions
so that science is really interesting
i'd say that you know we'll get to
concrete recommendations about mental
health treatment a second but
um going back to like impressive
yeah please and at the murder thing i
don't want to make light of it somebody
lost their life and i see people joking
and chat about i'm going to make a
youtube channel real life murder now
that somebody lost their life and i was
messed up that i did that that's not
something i even like to talk about
much less use as a as a form of
advertisement or i caused that family a
lot of pain and that's really messed up
that i did that
sure sure so i i completely agree with
that but i i think it's important to
also acknowledge that that's the way the
internet is
right that we live in a world where if
you did something like that
there are going to be people who due to
shot and freud or voyeurism or like
because they're all looking for
something like you know they're just
like you said they're like addicted to
youtube and they're looking for
something that's gonna like excite them
and make them feel something so i know
it sounds kind of weird but i think that
your karma
your karma has set you up in a very
unique way that i think could be an
advantage i know it sounds kind of weird
i think it's hard to make that case and
i mean overall that disadvantage
absolutely but it still makes you the
person that you are and i think the
person that you are
i mean you have such a unique
perspective on life
that could be very educational to people
like i've learned a lot you know and i
do this this is my job and i've still
learned a lot i've worked in prisons for
months
and i've never had a conversation with
anyone in prison the way that i've had
with you
because most of the time they're not as
scribal as you are unfortunately right
they haven't done i wouldn't i had one
come to try to talk to me when i was
like 17 and and i would
i always thought therapists were for
[ __ ] were for where for fakers people
who just wanted attention or to cry and
feel sorry for themselves i think that
was just more of mom's
mom's upbringing right there because
that's kind of what she instilled in me
is that you know it's every man for
himself you got to pull yourself up by
your bootstraps you better keep your
mouth shut nobody wants to hear you cry
yeah i mean you just suck it up
and so that's kind of that's kind of
that's kind of the philosophy i lived
under most of my life
so can we go back to impressing people
for a second because i think there's a
lot here yes carry on so so i i think
that um when it comes to impressing
people like i think it makes sense
because you know you're concerned for
good reason
that what you are on the inside people
aren't gonna like right so like when you
were five and you don't know how to put
on a mask your mom was like really cruel
to you your brother was like pretty
neglectful you know i wonder a little
bit about whether he was you know since
you were the favorite whether he
resented you for that
um
you know there's there's a lot of stuff
there where you learned early on that
like who i am is like not an okay person
and then that gets reinforced by you
know going to prison and putting on a
mask and this kind of stuff and then you
sort of also gets reinforced when you
start like doing really nice things for
people and you begin to see like oh if i
give people gifts like they're going to
like me and they'll want to hang out
with me this is how this game is played
it's all very cerebral
right
so i think that as a result you're going
to want to impress people because
there's probably also if we want to just
be blunt about there's some amount of
shame right because you're a 41 year old
dude you got laid like 25 years ago you
know
there's a lot of that crap and so to
compensate for all of that stuff
there's gonna be like i wanna because i
feel like i'm down here if i impress
people to this level i'll end up
somewhere in the middle where i can be
comfortable
you know even if i and so there's a lot
going on there and so i'm not surprised
that you'll also swing to the other end
of the sp spectrum because
if you i don't know how to say this but
if you advertise something really
terrible you've done
and then people hate you for it
that's the reason they hate you it's not
because that's understandable exactly
it's not because there's something
broken and unfixable and deep down and
part of your dna
that
if people saw like you would be
absolutely terrified if they hated you
for that but you're fearful that there's
something within me that like
if i ever let people see so then what
you do is you advertise all this
negative crap and it actually protects
you both ways either way what's
happening is no one is getting an
authentic you
and so the tricky thing there is you
know i think stepping away from all of
this stuff
so you try so hard you're trying to
figure out who am i well like i think
all you need to do is stop moving away
from it and you'll figure it out i think
actually we know who you are i feel like
i have a pretty good sense of who you
are can you share
yeah so i mean i think you're i think
you're the dormant philosopher
i think that you like to think big
thoughts you like to have your thoughts
challenged you want to have you want to
put your thoughts out into the world and
you want to have respect for the quality
and excellence of your thoughts
with all of that yep that it's who you
are bro
right like you want to say to the world
like i'm going to work really really
really hard at this and i'm gonna make
it awesome and i'm gonna show it to you
and y'all are gonna [ __ ] think it's
awesome too
the day that you're able to do that i
think is gonna be the opposite end of
the spectrum of when you were suicidal
and trying to find a reason to wake up
tomorrow for tomorrow
as long as you're moving in that
direction you're gonna fight to stay
alive
and the problem is that you've just been
given such a shitty circumstance
that
that part of you has never had a chance
to like
exist in the world because who's going
to listen to an ex-con who's going to
listen to this guy who's going to listen
to like it
dude without a shin
your mind is gonna fill in all these
different reasons why no one has had a
chance to reason to listen to you but
you have a lot to say and it has immense
value
what do you think about that
i think that'd be fantastic um
if anybody wanted to talk to me about
anything that'd be great yep
so so and i think this is the tricky
thing so now we get to like the rigidity
right so you have to be careful because
the ego i think is shooting you in the
foot in some ways
so when you know someone when you're
attracted to someone because they're an
eight and you want to impress everyone
because
you know this person's an eight and you
want to go on a date with them
and they say hey i think you should
really meet my friend who's probably not
a three she's probably not maybe she
really is a bridge troll but i suspect
that your mind is warping her
attractiveness
and the second thing is like you're not
like a super sexual guy to begin with
and do you want a hot girlfriend sure
but i think it would be wonderful if you
could like because attraction is more
than physical stuff right there's like
intimacy there's emotional stuff people
have very healthy loving sexually
arousing relationships in their 70s
like they do that it's like normal right
so i think a big part of that is is like
you're not giving people a chance
to
like
you you're kind of writing yourself off
right it's back to this idea of here's
the test that i can pass therefore i'm
going to throw that one out the window
and let me find one that i can fail
and so when you talk about rejection
from women that's fine but you know i
don't know that you're also playing a
fair game there
where like maybe
you are
you know and i'm not saying that you
can't get an eight like i think you can
get an eight i think it's going to take
some work
but i think this is where other
self-fulfilling prophecies could come in
because the eight shows up and you're so
concerned about her not rejecting you
that you do a lot of nice stuff for her
you meet her emotional needs while not
asking for anything in return in an
effort to get her to like you and then
she starts treating you like a friend
because that's like that's the thing
right we're friends like friends are
there for each other
and the start of the romantic
relationship is like different like
people usually make their intentions
know early on but this is how people
kind of repeatedly get into the friend
zone is you're afraid she's going to
reject you so you want to stack the deck
in your favor by doing a lot of nice
things yeah yeah the friend zone that's
where i live that's my that's my address
so so you stack you stack up on your
side to get her to like you in a
particular like to get her to like you
so you're there for her and then you
know women this is going to be a
generalization which you know
anyone can criticize me for fairly but i
think generally speaking like women are
better at
offering emotional support and receiving
emotional support without it having a
sexual connotation to it whereas like if
you were like the things that you do for
the women that friendzoned you you
wouldn't do for your dude your boys
right right
you know like like you treat them
differently so like there's there's a
interesting thing about emotional
support and sexual intimacy which men
tend to tie together a little bit closer
and women don't
broad sweeping generalization that's
very open to criticism
but i do think that the more you stack
the deck in your favor to try to get
someone to like you the more likely
you're you are to end up in the friend
zone
so in this hypothetical scenario where i
do have an eight
or even a seven or six i gotta be honest
do you i feel and i would want to know
if you feel as well
i i fear i would be extremely insecure
and jealous
one time i had a girlfriend when i was a
kid i was ex
massively insecure like like grossly so
like creepily weirdly
psychotically so
yep you're only with me because you like
my brother and and
yeah so
i don't know that i'm emotionally
equipped for uh for a relationship of
any kind you're you're do you think that
oh okay okay so i'm right then okay yeah
so i i don't think you're emotionally
equipped for a relationship but that
doesn't mean you shouldn't start dating
and that also doesn't mean that you
won't become emotionally equipped over
time
because if you've gotten this far
with this shitty hand of cards like i
think you could be emotionally equipped
for a relationship in no time
don't sell yourself short
you know you haven't really been trying
i mean i know you've been trying in your
way i don't think you've been engaged in
a in a positive learning environment
that's what i'd call it right so like
even if you end up they end up
recommending what you call a three
it's probably closer to a five
and i think you should do your best to
like go and have a conversation with the
person you don't have to sleep with them
just try to go and like make a friend
like fine well that hasn't by the way
that hasn't happened since i was sick 15
14 years old so this is nothing reason
that has happened
yeah so i yeah okay i don't even have
any friends too i don't even have any
friends to refer anybody for me i don't
know how to make friends i don't go
anywhere so that makes it hard
think to myself okay where do i go to
meet people well corona virus happens so
okay fair enough but in normal
circumstances i don't know where one
goes as an adult to me
friends lovers you know just just other
adults
yeah so that's a challenging question
um i'm gonna i'm gonna table that for a
second okay we'll get to concrete advice
um
so the last thing that i want to share
with you is i think that like like you
said you're going to be very insecure if
you enter into a relationship so the
question is
how do you learn how to be insecure
right so and this is the challenge and
secure or secure sorry secure so
okay um
you know and i think this is gonna be
tough
but i think this is where you got to
work on the rigidity of your thinking
okay so like if your mind is telling you
something and it's telling you this is
true this is true this is true this is
true
there's a general capacity to be less
rigid with your thinking and be more
flexible
so i know this is this is i i say this
not entirely i say this with judgment
okay so like if you can learn how to
love a jewish person you will be no
longer insecure
so i didn't really want to get into this
but i don't hate
the jews i just hate jews
maybe i mean it the other way i don't
hate jews i hate the jews individually i
have no opinion on them okay sure so i
get what you're saying i get what you're
saying if i can overcome something that
i have made my mind up on exactly so
that's why it doesn't have to be the
anti-semitism right that's me taking a
sucker punch at you so i apologize for
that that's fair totally fair i knew i
had it coming so yeah now that we've
done it
we're good right
so the other thing is i would say that
you've made other statements i keep on
harping on that because maybe that
statement did bother me so i should have
i should have processed those emotions a
little bit better but um and maybe you
did detect disgust i'm sort of
reflecting now
but i i think that uh
what i would say is that there are
several things that you said today where
you're like that's the way that i am
right and i think flexibility around any
one of those things basically
training yourself to be cognitively
flexible i think is the most important
thing that you need to learn
because i do think i mean it's not hard
to figure out what you should do in your
life i think like to summarize like so
here's what i'd say anthony first of all
what you should your purpose in life
right now is to [ __ ] live it because
you haven't had a chance
so i'd say if you enjoy playing video
games play video games go and seek as
many experiences as you can because like
go eat burgers you know study computer
programming be at the top of your class
like get a [ __ ] award with the day
that you graduate you know like be on
the honors list
do the things that kids normally go to
their parents and are proud of
and then like you know do the things
that make your parents brag about you
and then you're not gonna have any
parents to brag about you and you're
gonna do that thing and you're gonna
feel devastated and alone and [ __ ]
feel that [ __ ] too
and then pity yourself and let other
people pity you and let other people
have compassion towards you
and let go of your like you know
i i don't know there's some strength in
there which is like a strength of
survival and let go of that let yourself
be weak
you know like feel all of those things
and have someone to share that with
and start to date and start to play
video games and go for walks you're in
the mountains fantastic build shelves
like build your house get a dog
do all of the things that life has not
let you do
and in terms of who you are read think
write
study
and then you say that's going to be hard
because i have no one to talk with which
is exactly right so i don't know this is
where practically like you have to find
people you have to recognize that as you
enter into places with people there's
going to be this tsunami of feelings
that arises
insecurity what are they going to think
what do i have to say how do i get them
to like me but you're not going for them
to like you you're just going to get
food for your mind
because the rigid thinking especially on
politics and stuff if you're on the
internet like you're never going to get
a contrary opinion or you're going to
discount a contrary opinion you know
like whatever
so just go and like i don't know where
you engage with people so i'd say that
you know sometimes there are like
different kinds of classes and stuff
like um you know even i it sounds like
you're in school online i assume because
of covet and you're living in the
mountains right
right
so so this is where i don't know where
your school is and and you know whether
it's a local university but it's online
classes yes or in person classes i could
take so not just in person classes i
would look at in-person extracurriculars
and you are going to feel like a weirdo
because it's going to be a bunch of 18
19 year old kids
and you're going to be a 41 year old
ex-con with tattoos
right
but like that carries a certain like
gravitas and respect
they're all children and you're a man
you know you may not feel like it on the
inside but it's kind of scary and with
your resting [ __ ] face you know because
your smile like really lights up your
face
it does wonders for it right you've got
a beautiful smile and and and so i think
even when you see it there's like
mischievous in like there's
mischievousness right there's
playfulness there there's excitement
and so i think all of those things you
actually have to give too is the resting
[ __ ] face terrifying absolutely are you
[ __ ] xcon with tattoos like
absolutely but the moment you smile it
all comes falling apart
and even to be able to smile like that
anthony that's what you've missed man
you know i want to see i want to say
that your goal should be having that
mischievous smile
every day
have a conversation with someone play a
trick on them you know pour some ice
water down their back like do whatever
it is that like you haven't gotten to do
have conversations with people and i'd
say if you want like a compass
try to go as close as you can to the
person that you were in the way you
interacted people when you hitchhiked
right because i think that that's
there's something about
acknowledging that you may not deserve
much but you're gonna give people a
chance to give you something anyway
and what i'm really seeing right now is
that once again you're holding yourself
back you're not giving people a chance
to care about you
all you do is you put up facades that
are guaranteed to get their respect and
enjoyment you're not giving people a
chance
you're tricking them into engaging into
a false relationship with you
so go and do stuff i'd say go see a
medical doctor if you if you don't have
one you know get yourself checked out
especially in terms of the sexuality
stuff there's some medical conditions
like for example low testosterone
production can lead to decreased libido
part of the reason i was asking you
about the leg muscles and the leg injury
is because the largest source of
endogenous testosterone in from the male
body comes from actually the quadriceps
muscles so people that i work with have
low uh testosterone like i'll tell them
to do like squats
like if you want to you know
get horny again do squats it's kind of
interesting
so it's a very endogenous kind of source
of testosterone there are other things
in terms of sexuality like just you know
the brain you know the body kind of like
you know
puts things on standby if they're not
like regularly used right so for 20
years while you're in prison we don't
know what your sexual activity is like
i'm not gonna ask zero but zero you know
so your your body's like hey we don't
need this thing so let's like shut it
down for now and you'll be surprised
it'll come back so i do think in terms
of hope by the way
i do think that everything that i'm
hearing you have a lot of handicaps but
i don't think you're like the boy who
was raised by wolves
right i don't think you missed
developmental milestones in such a
crucial way to where you won't be able
to engage in these things and this
conversation really reassures me because
you seem like a quite a relatable guy
like you seem like a good dude
right you're very in tune with facial
expressions you're very sensitive to
different kinds of judgment you're
better at detecting my sensitive my
disapproval than i am and i'm pretty
[ __ ] good at detecting myself that
means you're an absolute beast and we
see this in people who are raised in
traumatic households because you have
it's a survival for you you have to be
able to read your mom's facial
expressions
right like whether you're gonna get hit
that day or not like you need to know
so be careful because you're going to be
interpreting a lot of information that
people themselves are not going to be
aware of
so you you will see dislike in people's
faces that they're not even aware of and
may not even
because i definitely see the facial
expressions and it's like it's like
oh i see where this is leading let me go
ahead and exit with some grace while i
still can exactly and this is the thing
though i know it sounds kind of crazy
but
they're only there's only a 20 chance
it's going to go where you think it's
going to go
because the other thing about your brain
and there's been overwhelming research
about this is that your brain is also
especially tuned to negative facial
expressions
sure absolutely
so you're gonna miss
all of the positive facial expressions
and you're gonna amplify all of the
negative ones which is in turn gonna
reinforce your insecurity
is going to cause you to stack the deck
in your favor
and will set you up for a relationship
on false pretenses which is going to
wind up in the friend zone
and i fear that i have women flirt with
me and i have literally no idea they're
doing it i i fear that does happen and i
would have no way of knowing yep
i i believe it
you know so
i think very practically anthony i think
the first thing is to understand
yourself and understand your rigidity
and try to engage in a little bit of
cognitive flexibility
really start to question what does that
mean practically it means question your
conclusions because like you said you
see where this is going hold on a second
let's actually play the tape through to
the end because when i ask you i forgot
what question i asked you about oh yeah
what are you afraid that you know why
are you reassured that we're never going
to meet again what is the judgment that
you're afraid i'm making and like it
doesn't there isn't one
right so it's actually there's this
really tricky thing going on where like
your insecurity is like shaping your
thoughts and it feels logical to you
and it feels like oh this has happened a
thousand times before so i know i'm
right
but like it's all like if you kind of
it's going to be smoke and mirrors it's
going to be a mirage i'm like pretty
sure about this stuff
that most of the problems that you see
are going to be mirages when closely
examined your insecurity is going to be
a mirage or there'll be some truth to it
like there's some good reason you know
i'm missing a shannon i'm an ex-con i'm
41 years old you know i may not be the
the you know the highest what most women
are looking for
right so there's some truth to that we
just have to acknowledge that but i
think that don't let those things define
who you are because you're so much more
than that
now
you mentioned that
you imagine it might be hard for me to
imagine myself as an adult inside what
made you say that because that's very
true i tell people i don't even know
what i want to be when i grow up and i
i'm only half joking when i say that um
what what what brought you to that
conclusion because that's exactly how i
feel
so the first is that you weren't shown
how to be an adult
so you don't know what it looks like
right
and then the second thing is that you've
missed a lot of the developmental
milestones that people
like that help people become adults
oh yeah that's true i get what you're
saying yeah you go to the weddings you
do the whole thing the girl you go to
prom
or you ask a girl out for prom and she
says no
you ask a girl out freshman year and she
yeah ask a girl out fresh sophomore year
and she says yes
that's how you grow up you you graduate
from college you get a college degree
you know you get your first job
you have a career
and then you're like adulting
you like talk with friends of yours and
this is your it's gonna be uh uphill
battle okay anthony i hate to break it
to you but like there's also like you
know when you're 21 years old and you're
like late night hanging out with your
friends and you have a conversation
about i don't know if i want to be an
electrical engineer
i really love art and then you have a
conversation about that and your friends
are like then you should do art and then
you wake up the next day and you realize
how stupid it is to not be an electrical
engineer and you try to have a
conversation with your parents like
that's idiotic and then you decide to
become an electrical engineer that's how
you grow up because you kill a tiny part
of your childlike self on the inside
you know
and so i think all those things so i
think it's a lack of modeling
and then also like you just haven't gone
through the developmental milestones the
good news is that
generally speaking data i don't know
about data but i guess i'm just making a
conclusion it's been my experience that
missed milestones you can catch up on
very quickly
so i would not be surprised if four
years from now you felt like a 45 year
old and you were doing most of the
things that a 45 year old is doing
sure
do you think it's possible i only want
friends and a girlfriend because that's
what is expected by society is to have
friends and a girlfriend to be normal
yes absolutely i think that's half your
problem
is that you're trying to do
normal yep is you're trying to do what
you think you should be doing instead of
actually doing what feels right to you
so why do you want the eight instead of
the three it's because
the eight other people would be
impressed that i have
but you may actually you may genuinely
if you got the eight to marry you and
you got the three to marry you
i'm not convinced that you would be
genuinely happier with the eight because
i don't think that physically more
insecure if anything right
case in point right you're the one who's
telling me it's a bad idea so like
instead gravitate towards what is
authentically you but the problem is
you've been weeding that [ __ ] out for so
long you don't even know what that is
right right
right so i don't know who i am yeah well
but so here's the thing so you get
there's there's a there's a trick you
can play
so as you observe your thoughts and as
you begin to realize
that
i want this eight because people will be
impressed then you know you should move
in a different direction
if i'm doing it for external motivations
okay that's that's great that's really
good inside that's great right so then
be like okay hold on a second what do i
actually want this is what i would feel
secure with because everything in your
brain understand this anthony when
you've had trauma like yours
everything in your brain is wired not
for happiness it's wired for safety and
security
what have you never had [ __ ] safety
and security
ever right right so like everything
you're going to be doing is going to be
the safe route computer programming like
that's a safe pick
well i figured future proof right that's
exactly the logic that went into it what
is the most future proof job i could
pick that i would be capable of doing
and that a felony would
not hamper as much you're absolutely
right you're right so it's it's all
safety and security and like safety and
security is important don't get me wrong
i think it's it's a good choice but at
the end of the day if that's where
you're moving towards in your cognitive
thought process move the other way
like i i can almost guarantee you that
if you start meeting women and stuff
you're going to meet a woman who is
absolutely amazing and would be a
wonderful partner and she's going to be
less attractive than what you would want
and really like look at yourself in that
moment examine that rigidity
you know and it's not about security or
any of that crap to be honest it's just
like do i enjoy spending time with this
person do i enjoy having a conversation
with this person that's what's important
i mean 25 years from now like everyone's
gonna be ugly anyway
so it's you know what
that's what i got some stuff right there
that's what i got for you
that's much appreciated i i think that's
some good insights um
i think
i i really i i don't know how like
i just i really wonder if i wouldn't
just be happier alone like maybe that's
what i really want and the only reason i
want other people okay i would like to
have a sounding board you're absolutely
right about that when you say somebody
you could just talk at in the guise of
conversation that does sound phenomenal
um
and honestly somebody to share life's
triumphs and things like that with right
and and and that would be great to have
um
but like
also it terrifies me the thought of
having to
the rigidity you're 100 right about the
rigidity because it's like i have a set
way of doing things i have and this is
how i think of it i have a set schedule
of when i clean the house on sundays
sundays when i do laundry sundays you
know i mean like i have a very rigid
schedule and i think a lot of that is is
is prison
yeah i mean
it's a rigid schedule in there you eat
when told to eat what you're told to eat
and how you're told to eat it and so you
you kind of you begin to find comfort in
the routine i began to find comfort in
the routine and
i was literally the only thing that kept
me going day to day is the routine one
meal to the next one meal to the next
and then wake up made one meal to the
next and so i think that that's that's
um
yeah i think that that rigidity
overcoming that rigidity and sharing my
life and letting somebody into my
intimate space would be difficult for me
yeah so
baby steps
right
so here's what i'd say anthony to sum
you up your problem is not one of
learning what you want to do it's about
unlearning
the second thing is you you may be right
that you may at the end of the day be
happier alone but you don't get to make
that choice until you've tried
tried
dude you have to live [ __ ] life
and living life means making mistakes to
figure out what your life looks like
thank you for that because i think that
was just giving up saying that i think
that was just talking myself into giving
up so thank you you may be right but you
don't get to make that decision yet
until you've tested the alternative
hypothesis right and it's turned out to
be a train wreck after train wreck after
train wreck if you want to grow up to be
an adult you have to have as
you have to have a string of bad
relationships in your teenage years and
early 20s
it's part of the process
you know
so i'd say like if you're not
entirely ready yet like slow steps you
don't have to open up completely but i'd
reign in some of that stuff
about you know trying to impress people
and like you're a genuinely good dude
you don't have to fake it
you know
so just let let that authentically show
do you think that professional therapy
would be advisable or not absolutely
is it necessary
do you sense something in there me that
that is off
no granted it's only been two hours i
know so let me let me explain let me
explain to you anthony this is very
important to understand
i i would strongly recommend
professional therapy to you not because
something is broken because you're so
cerebral and you would get so much out
of it
is a bunch within you broken yeah man
it's like
a hurricane went through your internal
self
but that's not the reason i'm
recommending therapy i'm recommending
therapy because you are really good at
having conversations and boy if someone
devoted one hour a week to helping you
understand yourself you would learn so
much
it's not about fixing something
it's about like think about this for a
second you could spend one hour a week
having someone reflect on your
interpersonal journey
helping you discover who you are
what holds you back how does all this
programming get laid down
you know what's what software and what's
hardware all of these questions i think
you can
do in therapy that's why you should do
it because you'd love it
not because you need it
will will it help you practically i
think so like especially with insecurity
and emotional you know that kind of
stuff like
but yeah and i'd say you know in terms
of resources and stuff i don't know
exactly what your financial situation is
like but you know if you're a student
oftentimes they have discounted or
available resources depending on
you know what
their ways to get it you can kind of
google search
you know for community mental health
center and oftentimes they can help you
in some way they can even like help you
get on insurance if your financial
situation is like below a certain level
like you can basically get insurance to
get therapy
um
but i would absolutely recommend it i
think
i mean if you find a decent therapist
that fits well with you
i think uh you know it doesn't
i think the thing you got to be careful
about is like some therapists may over
pathologize you
so they may like think like oh my god
like anthony's like such a oh he's like
such a poor traumatized little baby and
there may be a part of you that really
wants that compassion because you
deserve it right there's a part of you
that it's going to piss you off
it would yeah it would it would be very
awkward right it would be very like pity
is very uncomfortable for me as was
compel actually i i don't know the
difference between compassion and pity
to be honest with you and so i don't
feel the difference that you're
absolutely right it's very shameful for
me to get compassion very shameful yeah
so here's the difference so pity
oftentimes comes at the cost of respect
right so what you really need is a
therapist who can recognize that you've
had a bunch of [ __ ] happen to you but
that you are not like a victim
like you are a victim
but like
let me say it this way you have been
victimized but you are not a victim i
don't feel like i'm talking to a victim
i feel like i'm talking to a survivor
and that degree of respect i think is
going to be very important to you and
you have to be patient with therapists
because when they hear about your life
what they're going to see is a victim
and as you overcome your ego and your
rigidity you will allow yourself to
become a victim too
and you will say actually it's okay for
people to pity me it doesn't mean that
i'm a weak person
but that's
that's going to take time my friend
and you know i want to thank you for
this time dr k you know one of the
things i like about you i i just i don't
know if i've heard this word before but
you don't over pathologize people um
i've watched a lot of your previous
sessions i really resonated with the
gifted group and i hope you get to have
a follow-up session with them i thought
that was an amazing session i would love
to see it again um but
as
you don't just jump straight to well i
see that you're suffering from bipolar
you know you know all these
self-diagnosis that people lay on
themselves that's you don't indulge in
any of that you say let's be let's have
common sense and here's some very
practical you know easily applicable
things that you can that you can put
into your life and that's what i really
like about your style and that's why i
wanted to come on here so thank you so
much for the experience i really got a
lot out of it um
i don't know if you ever want to talk
again you guys have my contact
information sure um but thank you again
so much thank you to chat for the
support
um
you you've been awesome it's been a
great experience thank you so much yeah
thank you so much for coming on anthony
thank you for sharing thank you for
being authentic
and to a certain degree vulnerable
i i think um
you know i know that there's some mental
protections in terms of not seeing us
again but i think what you're doing is
awesome
i think that this is the story that
you're sharing is one that not enough
people share
because the truth is that there are a
lot of people out there who are like you
and that you know ex-cons are not people
that
should be relegated to menial labor for
the rest of their life
you know many of them are talented and
gifted and and dormant
i'll toss that word out again i think
you're just dude you're just like
you're just waking up
give yourself time but you'll be amazed
at what you can accomplish
so thanks for coming on and good luck
thanks doctor okay you have a great one
um just uh
i can't teach meditation today because
we're about 20 minutes over but
otherwise um i would highly recommend i
think you should get an access code if
you don't have one already just because
you're a guest to the stream but i would
definitely recommend the meditations in
the atman
of dr k's guide to mental health
um
so we'll we'll send you that but uh i'm
sorry i can't teach you meditation today
just because we're kind of ran over best
of luck seriously anthony like i'm
rooting for you man appreciate you
i appreciate you guys yeah take care
thanks you too bye now
okay chat we are over time gg
oh that was interesting
um anthony's fantastic
right it's so interesting
so here are a couple of takeaways i
don't know if y'all if i need to say
this but
so too often
our identities get dominated by
particular events in our life right i am
a failure versus i fail to test i am a
convicted felon versus i committed a
felony and you know served a prison
sentence
and so
um
and sometimes lsd is amazing
so i think i think if we want to talk
about lsd for a second i think it just
speaks to the the potential therapeutic
value of psychedelic substances which
are being studied just a reminder i
don't know if you all know this but like
you know people will have bad outcomes
from lsd too people will like develop
anxiety and panic attacks and ptsd and
all kinds of stuff so i don't recommend
that people use it
at least until it gets sort of kind of
verified through clinical trials we try
to stay as evidence-based as we can in
terms of our recommendations here
but we do also offer a lot of
non-evidence-based recommendations to be
fair so in terms of lsd you know i'd say
be careful
but i i think you know for all of y'all
the thing that really shocked me about
anthony is how relatable he is right
because when we think about these labels
right someone who like you know
committed murder at the age of 16 it
sounds like
and went to prison for 20 some odd years
like we don't think about someone who's
so relatable but i think part of why i
love doing this work is because we're
all human and the experiences that we
share are like surprisingly similar
and so a lot of the stuff that he's
dealing with i think is very common in
our community about this whole business
of friend zone and being insecure and
like doing things for people and then
feeling resentful because you've
invested so much and they haven't given
you anything because you were and then
you feel that entitlement and then you
start to feel like constantly rejected
and and it kind of changes the way that
you think so be super careful about your
rigid thinking i think part of what
holds us back in general is our very
rigid thinking and anthony's a smart guy
so clearly he's like super high iq is
capable of a lot
um and and you know he's just
another key kind of takeaway is that
a lot of what holds us back a lot of
like growing and learning is not so much
as actually not about learning it's
about unlearning
that usually what human beings do is
we'll develop adaptations to our
circumstances and those help us survive
particular periods and then growing as a
person involves letting go of those
adaptations and actually trying
something different it's letting go of
the strategy that works
you know if i kind of think about a
video game analogy it's sort of like you
can get away with something in like low
level games right you can be like a one
trick pony and like zerg rush
your opponents like six pool people
people even know what that means
you know you can do like some kind of
cheese strat when you're in bronze
league but as you ascend through the
ranks like you can't keep using that
cheese strat over and over and over
again you actually have to unlearn
things and start to come up with
different strategies as you rise through
the ranks
and so if you feel stuck like i'm
concerned that if anthony doesn't
unlearn what he's had to
learn to survive he will stay stuck
right another six years will go by he
won't be in a relationship
and so if you all are feeling stuck in
life it's not so much that you're you
know bad at something or you're a
failure or you're lazy or dis
undisciplined that's all unactionable
information so let go of that crap
instead what you need to be asking
yourself is like how did i learn to do
the things that i do
you know when did i how did i benefit
from playing video games 24 7. and you
may say to yourself oh i didn't benefit
at all it's all a waste that's when your
your thinking needs to be better you
need to be a little bit more clinical a
little bit more scientific
recognize that playing video games all
day long protects you from all kinds of
stuff
you don't have to feel shame while
you're playing a game
when you have a 60 minute game of dota
and you come back at the last second
against medi mega creeps
you get to feel like the best thing on
earth
and what else in your life gives you
that feeling what else in your life
gives you a feeling of absolute triumph
and dominance
right when you don't have access to
those feelings in the rest of your life
that's why you play the game
it does things for you that you aren't
able to do in your regular life so you
may think that all of the things that
hold you back are negatives which you
need to understand is that all of those
things are actually positives they're
not problems they're solutions
and moving forward actually
is about undoing solutions that have
gotten us to where we are